{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20280\viewh12800\viewkind0
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs36 \cf0 WHAT IS SOFTWARE? WHAT IS SOFTWARE ENGINEERING?\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0    \'97> 
\fs28  \ul SOFTWARE\ulnone  IS A SET OF INSTRUCTIONS,  DATA OR PROGRAMS USED TO OPERATE COMPUTERS AND EXECUTE SPECIFIC TASKS. \
\ul SOFTWARE ENGINEERING\ulnone  IS THE PROCESS OF CREATING , DESIGNING AND 
\fs36 MAINTAINING SOFTWARE. \
 \
2.   EXPLAIN TYPES OF SOFTWARE.\
 \'97> 
\fs28 THERE ARE TWO TYPES OF SOFTWARE:\
 \ul APPLICATION SOFTWARE\ulnone  \'97 IT HELPS IN PERFORMING SPECIFIC TASKS.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 SYSTEM SOFTWARE \ulnone  \'97 IT IS ASSOCIATED WITH CONTROLLING AND UTILIZING  THE HARDWARE OF COMPUTER SYSTEM.
\fs36 \
\
3.   WHAT IS SLDC? EXPLAIN EACH PHASE OF SLDC.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \'97>  (SLDC ) software development life cycle is a process used by software development organizations to plan,  design,  develop, test, deploy and maintain software applications. SLDC is used in every software development company because it is the root of the development cycle. If that model would not exist in the world, firstly no software can be build ,secondly if any how it would be made ,it\'92s not going to succeed as it has not use, because of no maintenance.\
Phases of SLDC are PLANNING, DESIGN, CODING, TESTING, AND DEPLOYMENT.\

\fs48 \

\fs36 4.   WHAT IS DFD? CREATE A DFD DIAGRAM ON FLIPKART.\
  \'97> DATA FLOW DIAGRAM\
A DFD is a way of representing a flow of data through a process or system. The DFD provides information about the input and output of each entity and the process itself. A data flow diagram has no control flow-there are no decision rules or loops.\
\
\
5.   WHAT IS FLOWCHART? CREATE A FLOW CHART TO MAKE ADDITION OF TWO NUMBERS.\
  \'97> Flowchart is a type of diagram that represents a work flow or process. A flowchart can be defined as a diagrammatic representation of an algorithm, a step-by-step approach of solving a task.\
\
\
6.   WHAT IS USE CASE DIAGRAM? CREATE A USE-CASE ON BILL PAYMENT ON PAYTM.\
  \'97> A use case diagram is user\'92s possible interactions with the system. A use case diagram shows various use cases and different types of users the system has and will often be accomplished by other types of diagrams as well. The use cases are represented either as circles or ellipses.\
\
\
}