{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f6\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f7\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red226\green226\blue226;\red24\green24\blue24;\red219\green233\blue255;
\red44\green48\blue63;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green16\blue18;\red226\green229\blue232;\red24\green25\blue27;
\red219\green233\blue255;\red44\green48\blue63;\red38\green38\blue38;\red10\green82\blue135;\red204\green175\blue175;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c90980\c90980\c90980;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;\cssrgb\c88627\c93333\c100000;
\cssrgb\c22745\c24706\c31373;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c7451\c7843\c9020;\cssrgb\c90980\c91765\c92941;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;
\cssrgb\c88627\c93333\c100000;\cssrgb\c22745\c24706\c31373;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c40000\c60000;\cssrgb\c83922\c74118\c74118\c30196;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20280\viewh12800\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs36 \cf0 MODULE - 5(DATABASE)\
\
1. 
\f1\i0\fs28 What do you understand by Database\
Ans.  
\f2\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A database is\'a0\cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 . A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS).
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
2. What is Normalisation?\
Ans.  
\f3\b\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 Normalization
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \'a0is the process of minimizing\'a0
\f3\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 redundancy
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \'a0from a relation or set of relations. Redundancy in relation may cause insertion, deletion, and update anomalies. So, it helps to minimize the redundancy in relations.\'a0
\f3\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 Normal forms
\f1\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \'a0are used to eliminate or reduce redundancy in database tables.
\fs28 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
3. What is Difference between DBMS and RDBMS?\
Ans.
\fs36   \cf8 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
DBMS stands for Database Management System, and RDBMS is the acronym for the Relational Database Management system. \cf10 \cb11 In DBMS, the data is stored as a file, whereas in RDBMS, data is stored in the form of tables\cf8 \cb9 .
\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
4. What is MF Cod Rule of RDBMS Systems?\
Ans. 
\f4 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf12 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Codd applied rigorous mathematical theories (primarily set theory) to the management of data, and he compiled a list of criteria a database must meet to be considered relational. At its core, the relational database concept centers around storing data in tables. This concept is now so common as to seem trivial; however, not long ago the goal of designing a system capable of sustaining the relational model was considered a long shot with limited usefulness.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa500\parhyphenfactor20\partightenfactor0
\cf12 Following are Codd\'92s 
\f5\i \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 Twelve Principles of Relational Databases
\f4\i0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 :\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa500\parhyphenfactor20\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1 \AppleTypeServices \cf12 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Information is represented logically in tables.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data must be logically accessible by table, primary key, and column.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Null values must be uniformly treated as \'93missing information,\'94 not as empty strings, blanks, or zeros.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Metadata (data about the database) must be stored in the database just as regular data is.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A single language must be able to define data, views, integrity constraints, authorization, transactions, and data manipulation.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Views must show the updates of their base tables and vice versa.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A single operation must be available to do each of the following operations: retrieve data, insert data, update data, or delete data.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Batch and end-user operations are logically separate from physical storage and access methods.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Batch and end-user operations can change the database schema without having to recreate it or the applications built upon it.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	10	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Integrity constraints must be available and stored in the metadata, not in an application ...\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5. What do you understand by Data Redundancy?\
Ans.  
\fs36 \cf8 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data redundancy \cf10 \cb11 occurs when the same piece of data exists in multiple places\cf8 \cb9 , whereas data inconsistency is when the same data exists in different formats in multiple tables. Unfortunately, data redundancy can cause data inconsistency, which can provide a company with unreliable and/or meaningless information.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
6. What is DDL Interpreter?\
Ans. 
\fs40 \cf10 \cb11 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It interprets the DDL (Data Definition Language) Instructions and stores the record in a data dictionary\cf8 \cb9  (in a table containing meta-data)
\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
7. What is DML Compiler in SQL?\
Ans.  
\fs36 \cf8 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
DML stands for \cf10 \cb11 Data Manipulation Language\cf8 \cb9 . Tables and formulas are helpful when communicating with data stored up to a point in a database through SQL (Structured Query Language), but a time comes when we actually want to execute some fairly complicated data interactions.
\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\
8. What is SQL Key Constraints writing an Example of SQL Key Constraints?\
Ans.  
\fs36 \cf8 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In a database table, we can add rules to a column known as constraints. These rules control the data that can be stored in a column. For example, \cf10 \cb11 if a column has NOT NULL constraint, it means the column cannot store NULL values\cf8 \cb9 .
\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
9. What is save point?How to create a save Point write a Query?\
Ans.  
\fs36 \cf8 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A SAVEPOINT is \cf10 \cb11 a point in a transaction in which you can roll the transaction back to a certain point without rolling back the entire transaction\cf8 \cb9 . Syntax for Savepoint command: SAVEPOINT SAVEPOINT_NAME; This command is used only in the creation of SAVEPOINT among all the transactions
\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
10. What is trigger and how to create a Trigger in SQL?\
Ans.  
\f6\fs32 \cf12 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A trigger is a set of SQL statements that reside in system memory with unique names. It is a specialized category of stored procedure that is called automatically when a database server event occurs. Each trigger is always associated with a table.\
\
Trigger can be created as:-\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f7\b\fs28 \cf13 \cb14 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
CREATE
\f6\b0 \cf12 \'a0
\f7\b \cf13 TRIGGER
\f6\b0 \cf12 \'a0
\f7\b \cf13 schema
\f6\b0 \cf12 .trigger_name\'a0\'a0\cf0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f7\b \cf13 \cb14 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ON
\f6\b0 \cf12 \'a0table_name\'a0\'a0\cf0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f7\b \cf13 \cb14 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
AFTER
\f6\b0 \cf12 \'a0\'a0\{
\f7\b \cf13 INSERT
\f6\b0 \cf12 ,\'a0
\f7\b \cf13 UPDATE
\f6\b0 \cf12 ,\'a0
\f7\b \cf13 DELETE
\f6\b0 \cf12 \}\'a0\'a0\cf0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf12 \cb14 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf16 NOT\cf12 \'a0
\f7\b \cf13 FOR
\f6\b0 \cf12 \'a0REPLICATION]\'a0\'a0\cf0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f7\b \cf13 \cb14 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
AS
\f6\b0 \cf12 \'a0\'a0\cf0 \cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf12 \cb14 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{SQL_Statements\}\'a0\'a0
\f1 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs36 \cf0 \

\f1\i0\fs24 \
 }